In some places, you can tell what time of
year it is by which flowers are in bloom.
In Yokohama, it's which boats
you see passing through the harbor.
Only, there are more and more of them now
since Tokyo was awarded the '64 Summer Olympics.
We have a great view of the
boats from my house on Poppy Hill.
Actually, it's my grandmother's house.
But with my father gone and my mother studying in America,
it's my job to cook and do laundry for our boarders
and look after my little brother and sister.
Ever since the wars, it seems the whole country is
eager to get rid of the old and make way for the new.
But some of us aren't so ready to let go of the past, and
sometimes the past is not ready let go of us either.
Good morning, Umi!
Good morning, Miss Aori.
Is Sora up yet?
Hmm, wouldn't that be a miracle?
Good morning.
Good morning, Miki.
Morning.
Ah.
So, late night at the hospital again, Miki?
Yep.
And another one tonight.
If you'd like, I can save dinner for you.
Oh, you're a saint.
What would we do without Umi?
What will I do without...
Hey, sis.
I got another hole in my sock.
Just leave it beside the sewing machine.
That boy has holes in his head.
Hey, I heard that.
Two eggs, please.
One is enough for you.
Well, I've got sports today, so pack a big lunch.
Is there a hole in your stomach too?
Ha ha.
Here, Riku.
Have my eggs.
Yes!
Thank you.
You should take it, Miki.
You need it more than him.
Now, which one of you is the doctor?
At least someone cares about my hunger pains.
Hey!
Easy on the soy sauce.
But I like it this way.
Ooh, pass me the soy!
Breakfast is ready, Sachiko!
Yeah, I'll be right there.
Good morning grandma.
Good morning.
Riku, why don't you and Umi share your mother's plate?
Thank you.
Grandmother.
Would you like me to make you some tea?
Yes, Umi.
That would be lovely.
Good morning, Sachiko.
I bid you all good morning.
Good morning.
Thank you, dear.
Please begin, everyone.
I gratefully receive.
You're late.
I couldn't get my hair to look right.
It looks like hair is supposed to look.
I'm starving.
Evening rounds again, Miki?
Yes.
I don't know how you keep up this pace.
Can I have your dinner?
See you tomorrow, Umi!
Bye Miki!
Good morning.
Morning, Umi.
Do you want a ride, Umi?
No, thank you.
I'll walk.
Ah, to be young.
Tomoko, could you finish the laundry for me?
Of course.
I'd be happy to.
Thank you.
Hey, wait up!
Hi.
Morning.
You saw it already?
Umi, over here!
Come see this.
What is it?
Oh, just an article about you.
It must be about you.
Who else raises flags every morning?
Fair girl.
Why do you send your thoughts to the sky?
The winds carries them aloft to mingle with the crows.
Trimmed with blue, your flags fly again today.
Aw, looks like someone's getting your messages.
Mm-hm.
I doubt it.
Someone at this school getting
those messages just doesn't calculate.
Math Club freak!
He's one of those snobby guys that
lives at that dirty old club house.
All rise!
There you are.
Sorry I'm late.
I'm starving.
Saved you a seat.
Who ordered the curry noodles?
So, what did he say?
Nobuko!
Over here.
Thanks for waiting.
Curry udon again?
Oh, and you're one to talk.
Let me guess.
Tuna sandwiches again?
Who cares?
I like them.
Umi, your lunches always look so good.
It's not difficult.
You should try making your own sometime.
It'll never happen.
I don't have the time.
Hey!
Great, now what?
And up.
One, two, one, two, one, two, one, two, one, two.
Men!
It's time.
Save our building!
OK, batter up.
Smile for the camera, lovebirds!
Give us a smile.
That was so cool.
Umi, are you OK?
So stupid.
I'm home!
Welcome back.
Oh, thank you Tomoko.
My pleasure.
There.
All finished.
The mackerel was on sale today.
Mm, mackerel, that's good.
Maybe I'll fry it.
I almost forgot, I have a meeting with grandmother.
Grandmother?
It's me, Umi.
Come in.
Very impressive.
You're managing the house beautifully.
Only because you're paying to Tomoko's
wages, which is a tremendous help.
Nonsense.
I would have hired her anyway,
even if we hadn't taken in boarders.
Tell me, my child.
Is this too much work for you?
I worry about you.
But why?
I promise I'm not letting it get in the way of my studies.
Umi.
Believe me, I know how much you miss your father.
But it makes me sad watching you
every morning raising those flags.
I hope you find someone.
Then maybe you won't need to raise those flags anymore.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
Come in.
I'm finished for the day, ma'am.
Thank you, Tomoko.
Excuse me, grandmother.
I should get dinner going.
It was very exciting.
In fact, it created such a stir that some of
the girls are talking about starting a fan club.
What?
OK, so what's his name?
Shun Kazama, and he is a real live wire.
So he's the electrician's son?
What?
Fair girl, why do you send your thoughts to the sky?
Thus the Principality of Wallachia was
hemmed in by the Ottoman Turks and Russia,
and its territory was coveted by both.
Hey Umi.
Sora, what's going on?
I bought this for 30 yen.
Wow, that's a waste of money.
I don't care what you say.
I think he's cute, and I want to get his autograph.
Please come with me to the Latin Quarter Clubhouse,
so that way when I meet him, he doesn't think I'm weird.
Are you crazy?
I don't want to go to that old place.
But I'm desperate.
Well, I'm not.
I know you're not, but you'll do it for me, won't you?
Come on, say yes.
Yes.
Yes?
Wow.
They really like signs.
Save the Latin Quarter.
Don't extinguish the flame of culture?
Ready?
Mm-hm.
Did you see those spots?
Um, excuse me.
Gentlemen?
I've never seen them so distinct.
This might be more awesome than the solar flares of 1960.
Don't even joke about that.
I said excuse me.
What did you say?
I'm sorry to interrupt, but we're
looking for the school newspaper office.
Uh, third floor, same room as the Archeology Club.
Thank you.
What are girls doing here?
I have no idea.
Do you think they liked us?
Well, I love what they've done with the place.
Wait.
Whoa.
Ahoy.
Excuse me, where's the Archaeology Club?
Upstairs.
Listen for the sounds of smug portentousness.
OK, thank you.
Ready?
Mm-hm.
Ah, at last.
Inquiring minds seeking answers to life's great mysteries.
Huh?
I will personally offer you my stewardship and
share with you my passion for the philosophical arts.
That's a very kind offer, but we're
actually headed for the. Archaeology Club.
Fine, as you wish.
But when you find yourself seeking the meaning of life,
I'll be right here to enlighten you.
Chemistry Club, you ruined our contemplation!
Oh well.
You're welcome, ladies.
That guy'll talk your ear off.
Hey, that's enough.
Show some respect you second-rate alchemists.
Here's a thought.
Try experimenting with something that actually exists!
Obtain new transparent energy from the
clouds, from the light, from the storms!
And suggest to man and the
universe the shapes they are to take.
Copernicus of the new age,
set this galaxy free from the...
CQ, this is O-N-4-FMKK.
Thanks, O-N.
We are high school students from Japan!
Watch your step.
Mm-hm.
That's it.
Oh, hi Umi.
Yamazaki.
Hey, couple of potential groupies here to see you.
Ciao.
Welcome to the Lit Club.
Or Archeology Club.
Or maybe you're the two who actually
read that failed weekly rag we publish.
Knock it off, Mizunuma.
Bring them in and close the door.
The crux of the matter is, how
can we make archaeology cool again?
We can't.
Uh, uh.
Oh.
Can you please give me your autograph?
Huh?
Go ahead, Elvis.
Hm.
Here.
Thank you.
Thank you so much!
How's your hand?
This?
This isn't from the fall.
I cut myself shaving.
He shaves.
Shaving?
Hey, how'd you like to help
Mr. Whiskers here cut some stencils?
Huh?
Because we're pretty busy with the campaign to
keep the Latin Quarter from getting demolished.
You're the little sister, right?
Yes.
I'm Sora Matsuzaki.
But if you need help with
stencils, Umi has better handwriting.
Right, Umi?
What are you talking about, Sora?
I don't have time...
Look, if you're a second year student, you
take physics, and your teacher is old man Suzuki.
Mr. Suzuki.
Right, well, Mizunuma uses these old tests to
make up a mock test for the upcoming physics exam.
That's right.
But it's not really cheating
if they're only half accurate.
Shun, see you at 6:007?
Right.
Miss Sora, please come with me.
OK.
With your permission, I will escort you to the
door, lest you be ambushed by our resident philosopher.
Permission granted.
Hm.
Hm?
From here to the end.
Mm-hm.
And I say we are cool.
We have to get people interested
in the Paleolithic Period.
To the library!
Meeting's starting, Shun.
Oh, you might wanna join us, Umi.
If you like a room full of guys screaming at each other.
Is it that late?
I'm sorry.
I have to go.
It's OK.
You were a big help.
Meeting time!
All club members to the first floor!
Check it out, X chromosome.
I'm home!
Wow, starting kind of late.
Yes, I know.
And I still need to cut some vegetables.
Can you help me out?
I hope so.
Grandmother, I'm home.
You're running a bit late, Umi.
Riku, we're all out of pork, and I need you
to run down to the butcher shop and get some.
Uh, no?
Sora”?
But the program just started and this is my favorite part.
But didn't Tomoko buy you some?
I used it all for the lunches.
Sachiko, start the rice in ten minutes, OK?
Rice, and chopping, and rice.
Going shopping?
Sort of.
Hop on.
I'll give you a ride to the bottom of the hill.
Ah, don't worry about this.
I can break just fine with three fingers.
What do you say?
I thought you were at your meeting.
Yeah, I was, but I left.
I've got to get back home before my curfew.
Did you finish printing the midterm mock test?
Not even close.
I'll get in early tomorrow and do it before school starts.
Shun, do you mind if I ask you a question?
Hm?
About the poem in the pa...
Hang on!
You were saying?
Hm, nothing.
Thank you, Shun.
Hi Mr. Ishii.
I need some sliced pork, please.
Hi Umi.
Two to go, please.
Because it's for you, there's a little extra.
You're very kind.
Here you are.
Have a good evening.
Next in line.
Thanks for waiting.
Mm.
Have one.
Won't make it on an empty stomach.
Where do you live?
Downtown.
Oh.
That's pretty far.
Mm-hm.
Gotta go.
Thanks for the ride.
You're welcome!
This is nice.
Sachiko, can I come in?
Are you not feeling well?
You'd better go ahead without me.
Wake up, Sachiko.
Whoa.
I know.
Ugh.
The colors are wrong when I paint at night.
It's beautiful.
What's this?
That's a boat I often see passing by.
This might sound crazy, but I
think it's answering your flags.
Oh, yeah.
You can't see it from the garden.
Answering my flags?
What day is it?
Good morning.
Morning, Shun.
Did you finish?
All printed up.
Would you like to see your handiwork?
Look at that.
Shun, I, uh...
There was something printed in
the paper I wanted to ask you about.
OK.
Um, now might not be the best time.
Maybe just after school?
Yeah, I was going to ask you to do some more
stencils, so maybe we can meet at the clubhouse?
That works.
It will have to be tomorrow, though,
because there's a big debate today.
Do you want to come?
I'd love to, but I have too much I have to get done.
Oh!
But I'll try.
Sure, OK.
Umi, wait up!
You want to get some ice cream?
I thought you had practice.
It was canceled because of that stupid debate.
I can't go to.
Tomoko's off today, and I really should get home early.
This way for the historic debate,
future of the Latin Quarter to be decided!
All right, good!
Stop there.
This is going to get rough.
Umi.
You heading home?
Because I got some really nice flounder.
Um, sure.
I'll take some.
Coming right up.
Hey, is your mom back from America?
Not yet.
I'll, uh, come back for the fish later.
Wha... how much later?
Construct a new state of the
art student center in its place!
Japan is a nation in transition!
We have suffered the scars of war,
and we have emerged a stronger people!
A peaceful people!
A modern people!
We cannot stand in the way of progress.
The Tokyo Olympics will showcase our new
democracy as a bright beacon to guide the world...
Oh, Umi.
...into a promising new future!
What are they yelling about?
I have no idea.
But how can we lead into the
future if we still cling to the past?
It is time we throw these old
buildings out as relics of a bygone era!
Our polls say 80% of you want the Latin Quarter torn down!
Your ideas of democracy make me laugh.
We've come here to debate; you've
already made up our minds for us.
Sit back down, or I'll have you thrown out!
You're just like the old men who run this country!
Dumb and enamored with the new!
I'm sick of that building!
It's time to tear it down!
It's about the Olympics!
Yeah!
Let him speak!
Listen!
If you're so hell-bent on demolition,
demolish your shortsighted thinking!
That's enough!
Sit down!
You cannot move into the future
without first knowing the past!
Destroy everything old and you dishonor
those who lived and died before us.
The Olympics has the whole country
thinking all that glitters is gold.
Well, I say it's not!
And just because the majority disagrees,
doesn't mean we're going down without a fight!
Anarchists!
Charge!
Here they come!
Stand!
Stand fast, men!
We're not history!
You're history!
Very graceful!
You should start attacking!
I still remember that day long ago.
You looked away, but I saw you crying for me.
Sayonara, you said, my love.
When morning came, you left an
ivory flower, my lone memory of you.
I walk alone, still hoping to find you,
the flower that blooms inside of my heart.
Umi!
So what did you think?
I think it was amazing.
You're all so passionate.
Yeah, debates are always like that.
I hate that everyone thinks
the clubhouse is just an eyesore.
They don't care what's going on inside.
You really think so?
Hey, I know.
Why don't you all just clean the place up?
Huh?
It's a great old building, but
no one can see it through the dust.
So clean it up.
Make it look like new again.
Make it cool.
Maybe invite a few girls.
Then the boys will like it, too.
You're probably right.
I would just have to convince everyone the
dust isn't an important part of its history.
The physics midterm mock test was a huge success.
I think it won you guys more than a few admirers.
Me included.
OK.
Well, um, here are the stencils.
Thanks again.
Bye, Shun.
Bye, Umi.
And thanks for the advice!
Forgot about the fish.
It was such a big fight, and they
were going to be in so much trouble.
But Mizunuma got them all to start
singing, and the teachers were totally fooled!
Sounds like nothing's changed.
When I was there, that stuff happened all the time.
Your president, Mizunuma, is the
little brother of a classmate of mine.
Really?
Was his brother also a genius?
His sister.
She's an astrophysicist.
Wow!
Here you go, doctor.
From my secret stash.
Is that whiskey?
As a matter of fact, it is.
Oh, glasses.
Can I have some?
Sora, you're too young.
Hey.
How about we invite some of the guys
from school to my going away party?
What guys?
The really cute ones.
Really cute what?
Hey, Umi.
H-O-K-U-T. Hokuto.
Hey, I didn't know you could read signal flags.
Thank you both for coming.
Umi, we're ready.
OK!
Forgive my sense of tradition, but why not
get married and start a practice right here?
Would that mean we'd all have to move out?
You'll probably be married by then.
Oh, if only that were true.
I'm going to marry a man who's brilliant, but sensitive.
Hm, is he here?
The trustees are the problem.
We can't let them tear the place down.
Agreed.
What can we do?
We need to go over their heads.
To who?
The principal just does what the board tells him.
I don't know.
We all just need to be really smart about this.
We need a strategy.
We need one fast, before it's too late.
We keep running out of glasses.
Well, I'll wash some.
You take that out.
OK.
OK, everyone.
Sushi's ready.
This building was built at the turn of the century.
It actually used to be a hospital.
See that carving up there?
It's over a hundred years old.
My great-grandfather loved cats.
Compared to the clubhouse, this
all looks practically brand new.
It's incredible.
And I'm guessing you're part of the reason why?
So your grandfather was a doctor?
Was your dad a doctor, too?
Mm-mm.
He was the captain of a ship.
From this valley they say you are going.
We will miss your bright eyes, and your smile.
Far from us, you are taking the sunshine...
So your mom married a sailor.
My grandpa and gran, they didn't approve of the
marriage, and so they tried to stop it from happening.
But my mom wouldn't let anything
stand in the way of true love.
That took guts.
She defied her parents and married him anyway?
Mm-hm.
And your dad, he taught you how to use the signal flags.
Mm, yeah, he did.
When I was just a girl.
He said they helped him find his way
back to us, so I raised them every day.
It was at our old house.
I'd raise them from the balcony
until his ship docked again.
Every day.
Every single day.
Then we got news about his ship.
That it sank during the Korean War.
They never found him, and that was that.
But I kept raising the flags,
hoping they might help him find me.
And when we moved here, I was
so upset, I couldn't stop crying.
There was nowhere to raise the flags, and I felt so lost.
So grandpa built me that flagpole.
We could use a little light.
Grandmother said this used to be my grandfather's office,
but now it's sort of become my mom's private study.
She sure likes to read.
Is this your family?
Yes.
Your father?
Mm-mm.
That's my grandfather.
My dad's right there.
Handsome, isn't he?
That's from around the time they got married.
Now, this is the photo I really love.
Yuichiro Sawamura?
That's my dad's name.
My mom kept the name Matsuzaki.
Umi, come on!
You're gonna miss Miki's speech.
OK.
Coming.
We'd better get back.
Thanks for coming.
Oh, you're welcome.
Bye.
Hey, I'm home.
You're late.
When you're late, your mother worries.
Shun, would you like some dinner?
I ate already.
...seems to catch the signal and eyes.
He sets.
And here's the pitch.
Na gas him a swings and he misses!
Na gas him a strikes out.
UMI'S VOICE Now, this is the photo I really love.
They never found him, and that was that.
Yuichiro Sawamura.
Welcome.
Thanks for coming.
Whoa.
We members of the Latin Quarter welcome all volunteers.
And for offering to help us restore and preserve
this treasured and magnificent cultural landmark,
we humbly salute you.
Fellow club members, are you
ready to fight for what you cherish?
Yeah!
Let's get to work.
No!
My hut!
No exceptions.
That's the rule!
One hand, lift!
Hey, watch out.
Don't... don't, don't bump the rail!
Watch out below!
Hey, you're welcome!
First Year Math, Second Year Math.
Wow, these are really old exams.
We use all these for the mock tests we print.
Whoa.
This is Miki's math final.
She got a perfect score.
Oh.
I gotta go.
Yamazaki, take over for me, will you?
Sure thing.
Here, Umi.
Huh?
Oh.
Mizunuma said to toss anything we don't need.
No reason to get sentimental.
Ugh, what a mess.
Didn't you guys ever clean this place?
Nope.
And neither did the guys before us.
Ew!
I think tomorrow we'd better bring the badminton team.
We love badminton!
Wow.
It's really hot.
Fire often is.
Sora!
It's time to go home now.
OK.
I'm just gonna stay a little while longer.
Bye!
So what's going on between you and Umi?
Uh, nothing's going on.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Yeah.
Father?
There's something I'd like to ask you.
I have to concentrate, so make it short.
Yuichiro Sawamura is the man in this
photo, and he's my real father, right?
We've already discussed all of this.
You're my son, and that's that.
Mm-hm.
We didn't know what to think, the night he brought you.
We had recently lost a child of our own,
and were struggling through a difficult time.
Sawamura came to our door with you his arms,
and a copy of this family register in his pocket.
The war had taken its toll.
He was going off to sea, and his
wife was unable to care for you.
Before I knew it, your mother
had you in her arms, nursing you.
She wouldn't let you go.
Sawamura was a good sailor.
In the Korean War, he was on a supply
ship that sank, and all of the men died.
He sent money and asked about you often.
You remind me of him more and more every day.
But you will always be our son.
Thank you, father.
Sachiko, do you see it?
Is there any answer?
Not yet.
I guess it's not coming by today.
Hello, Miki.
Umi.
Come on in.
You're really leaving, aren't you?
We all have to move on, don't we?
I wish I could see you off.
It's OK.
I know you have to get to school.
I'm going to miss you.
I'll drop by now and then.
Now, go.
Before I start crying.
Mm-hm.
I hope everything works out with you and Shun.
Huh?
Take care, Miki.
Extra, extra, extra!
Latin Quarter gets a facelift!
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
Here you go.
Extra, extra!
Extra edition of the Latin Quarter Weekly.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Latin Quarter gets a facelift!
We really need your help today.
Get your papers right here!
Extra!
Extra edition of the Latin Quarter Weekly!
Here you go.
Thank you.
I'll be there again today.
Great.
Still lots to do.
Hi, Shun!
How's it all going?
Fine.
I'll try and see you there.
Hey, hey!
I'll see you there later, all right?
Spread the word.
One for you, Umi.
Extra! I.
Extra, extra!
Get your Latin Quarter Weekly!
Extra!
Extra, extra!
Read all about it!
Latin Quarter Weekly, right here!
The next label is complete.
OK.
Don't hurt yourself, Shun!
Shun!
He's so brave.
Don't fall!
Be careful up there!
Careful!
That was amazing!
He did it!
Now, he's cool.
So cool.
This is exciting!
Does he have a girlfriend?
Oh.
OK, I'm confused.
Why are you mad at me?
Yuichiro Sawamura is my real father.
Huh?
It's like a cheap melodrama.
I don't understand.
I didn't want to believe it, either, but
I checked with City Hall, and it's true.
No!
Umi, we're brother and sister.
So what do we do now?
I guess we stop feeling how we feel.
We'll just have to go back to being friends.
Hey, Sora.
Did something happen to Umi at school today?
I don't think so.
At least not that I'm aware of.
Are you certain?
That dinner was surprisingly odd.
And she was soaking wet.
Something must have happened.
Umi's never made a bad meal that I can remember.
Hm.
It's me, Umi.
The bath's ready.
Not tonight.
You OK?
Umi?
Good morning, Umi.
Did you sleep well?
Mom, you're home.
When did you get back?
Don't be silly.
You know I've been here all along.
Umi!
I'm hoisting the flags.
Come give me a hand.
Dad, is that you?
Your flags led me home, Umi.
You're such a big girl now.
Yeah, make sure it's secure!
As Latin Quarter alumni, we are more than happy to help.
And if you need more supplies, Jiro here
is in construction, so just give him a call.
Not for free, though.
Why not?
You told me business was booming, didn't you?
Good bye, and good luck to you.
Thank you very much.
That was cool.
Good thing we went to Miki's party.
That Umi comes through for us again.
Huh?
She must be our goddess of good luck.
Hi, guys.
Morning.
Wow, this looks like a real construction site.
You call that plastering?
Well, uh, uh...
Give me that trowel, and let me show you how it's done.
First you have to swirl it into a
smooth paste to get all the lumps out.
Then up, over, left, right.
Whoa.
Left, right, spin, and up.
Awesome!
Yeah.
They don't call my dad the Plaster King for nothing.
You are beautiful.
What did you say?
Uh, the wall.
I was talking to the wall.
No, you weren't.
Hey.
It's already looking better.
Sorry you had to stay late.
I hope you won't be in trouble.
Sora actually agreed to cover for me.
Anything you need help with, Shun?
Mm, uh, well, these papers need transcribing.
OK.
So is that all you need from me?
Yep.
That's all I can think of.
At least for now.
OK, then.
OK.
So everything cool between you two?
All cool.
New Latin Quarter Weekly.
Details about the renovation!
Read about the new building, then see for yourself!
Hot off the press!
Majority of girls oppose demolition.
Read about it in the Latin Quarter Weekly.
Midterm results announced!
Another victory for Latin Quarter mock tests.
More mock tests in this week's Latin Quarter Weekly.
New poll results give new life to old building.
Read about it here.
Majority of all students oppose demolition.
Everybody ready?
Here we go.
Yes!
Huh?
Hurray!
Umi!
Don't go anywhere.
Shun!
We're holding an emergency meeting.
The board just voted to tear down
the Latin Quarter over the summer break.
I did.
I've tried reasoning with them, believe me.
But the principal says it's out of his hands.
What about all our hard work?
They decided without even looking look at?
Their massive egos wouldn't fit through the doors.
“Right.
Let's start a revolt!
Take to the streets!
Oh, yeah!
Why don't we just take it straight to the chairman?
The chairman's running a huge company in Tokyo.
We'll never get to see him.
In the words of Plato, tyranny must not prevail!
Go!
Fight the good fight!
Come on!
To Tokyo!
Please go!
Go for us!
Let's go to Tokyo and make our case.
That's right, Shun!
Mizunuma.
Please.
Come on, Mizunuma.
You have to!
Only if our goddess of good luck joins us.
Oh, good.
Umi?
Of course she'll go.
Hey, Umi.
Good luck tomorrow.
Ticket, sir.
Here you go.
Good morning.
Thanks for waiting.
You're welcome.
No problem.
We're very happy you're coming with us.
Me too.
It'll help take my mind off other things.
Ticket, ma'am?
Yes OK.
Let's go.
Well, into the breach?
Mm-hm.
Students from the Konan Academy.
That's right.
And you don't have an appointment?
No, sir.
We're appealing directly to Mr. Tokumaru.
Something about a direct appeal.
No.
No, they don't seem like radicals.
There's three of them.
Al right.
I'll tell them.
Take the elevator at the end of the hall to the
fourth floor, and his office will be on the right.
Thank you very much for your help.
Don't forget to sign in.
And next time, make an appointment.
It's hard to know what's going to happen.
Are you those students from Konan?
Ma'am.
Mr. Tokumaru is a very busy man, and he doesn't
normally see people who haven't made an appointment.
Yes, ma'am.
We understand.
But speaking frankly, ma'am, we didn't actually believe
we would get an appointment if we called to make one.
Ma'am.
You're probably wasting your time.
But since you seem determined, you can wait on
the bench as long as you don't disturb anyone.
We thank you for your time, ma'am!
What a year Nagashima's having.
He could win another MVP.
Scoring a lot of goals.
Goals?
Have you even seen baseball?
Thank you, ma'am.
Oh!
Come on, then.
Let's go get a drink.
Quick, before he makes us stay.
You're still here?
Well, come on in.
Thank you.
Oh, yes. Right.
Thank you for seeing us.
Uh-huh.
Yes?
Hang on.
Have a seat.
I'll be with you gentlemen in a minute.
Al right.
I've made my decision.
I can't agree to that right now.
Yes.
Bye.
Sit down.
Why are you kids here today, and not in school?
Because, sir, we escaped.
Escaped, huh?
I did that a lot myself.
Yeah.
Well, I guess you're here to
talk to me about that old clubhouse.
Yes.
We've come to you directly to ask
you to see the building for yourself.
We've put a lot of work into it.
Come see what we've done.
That's all we're asking.
Hm.
What year are you, young lady?
Second year.
My name is Umi Matsuzaki.
Sir, that building is more than just a building.
And tell me, how is it more than just a building?
Oh, because we all love it.
And it makes us feel connected to our past.
Like we belong to something.
Connected to our past.
Hm.
May I ask what your father did?
He was a captain on a supply ship.
But his ship sank during the Korean War.
They had made a delivery and were coming home.
But his ship hit a mine.
A supply ship.
Yes, sir.
I'm sorry.
I know it must have been very hard
for your mother, raising you on her own.
She obviously did a fine job.
Thank you.
All right.
I'll go.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman!
So, tomorrow.
How's it look?
Right, that's in the evening.
Move the rest to Friday.
Now, I'll be there tomorrow afternoon.
I'll handle everything with your principal.
The rest will be your job.
I know, I know.
I actually didn't think that would work.
Yeah, I'm still not sure it has.
Well, I'm glad we came.
I promised my mom I'd go visit my uncle.
See you tomorrow!
What do you think you'll do?
You know, after graduation?
Hm.
Well, we don't have much money,
so probably National University.
What'll happen to the Weekly?
I'll have to find somebody
dedicated enough to take it over.
What about you?
I haven't decided, but I'm sort of
thinking I might like to be a doctor.
Hm.
Shun, are you...
Are you one who wrote that poem in the paper?
Mm-hm.
I saw those flags every morning from my
dad's tugboat, and I found out it was you.
Well, I can't really see any of the boats from the garden.
So that's why I never noticed there
was somebody out there, answering me.
Can I tell you something?
Hm?
Those flags that I raise.
They're a message to my father, and
it says, I pray for your safe return.
But he knows he can never come back to me,
so what I think he did was send you instead.
And I don't really know what to do, because we're...
Umi.
Look, I know we can't do anything
about it, but just know, I love you.
And I love you, too.
Hey, I'm home.
Mom, you're home.
Umi, it's good to be back.
Tell me about America and your studies.
Oh, I learned something new every day.
But mostly how much I missed home.
And we missed you.
This is the best thing I've ever ate.
It's beef jerky.
So is it pork?
Sachiko, beef means cow.
Mom?
What's wrong?
Why are you awake?
There's something I need to talk to you about.
Of course, Umi.
It must be the time change.
I can't sleep, so I thought I would
organize these books I got in America.
There's this boy at school.
His name is Shun Kazama.
I'm so confused, because he came here for Miki's
party, and I showed him the photograph of dad.
And he had the exact same photo, and he said
his father and my father are one in the same.
This photo?
Mm-hm.
Well, I knew the day would come when
I would have to explain this to you.
I told you the story about how
your father and I eloped, didn't I?
And do you remember where we used to live?
Downtown in that second floor apartment,
with the balcony off the living room?
We were newly married, and I was pregnant with you.
And your dad was away at sea a lot, and I
was working on my degree, studying very hard.
I was determined to do well in
school, in case something happened.
Our lives were already complicated when
your father returned home one night with a baby.
Hey.
Welcome...
Yuichiro.
Whose baby is that?
He's Tachibana's.
We need to take him.
What?
Tachibana was killed in an
accident aboard a repatriation ship.
His poor wife died from complications during childbirth.
The rest of his family was killed at Nagasaki.
I won't have this child sent to an orphanage.
Your father had legally adopted a
newborn baby without even asking me.
The war had just ended, and things
like this were happening everywhere.
Still, there was just no way I could
give the child the love and care he deserved.
One of Yuichiro's friends recently
lost a child, so we gave the baby to him.
How is he?
Tell me, is he doing well?
Mm-hm.
I'm glad.
Your father was impulsive, but he
always did what he thought was right.
It was a relief to see the
baby end up with a loving family.
Are you absolutely sure that Shun
couldn't possibly be dad's real son?
I don't think I ever considered it.
Why do you ask?
Don't tell me he actually looks like your father?
Mm-hm.
Oh, Umi, sweetheart.
See you tonight.
Yeah, mom.
Have a great day, girls.
Hm.
Hello again, Mr. Chairman, and welcome.
Yeah, yeah.
Hm.
Never knew this existed under all that dust.
Oh, yes, sir.
They've done a good job.
And what is your club studying, young man?
Sir!
The Astronomy Club has been studying
sunspots for the last ten years, sir.
Oh, the last ten years, huh?
Tell me, what discoveries have you made?
That the sun is very, very old,
and our lifespans very, very short.
No discoveries so far, sir!
Honest answer.
Philosophy Club?
Seems to me you could really
benefit from a brand new clubhouse.
And something nice for your junior members.
We as human beings have complicated
every simple gift of the gods!
Quoting Diogenes?
I must say, principal, these students
of yours are very, very impressive.
I'm gonna take a little look inside.
Shun Kazama?
Yes?
Where's Plato?
And what's that dog doing in there?
Hello, dad?
What's wrong?
The third man in that photo is here at the harbor.
I know he can tell you about your father.
Huh?
But his ship is leaning at... oh, 4:00!
And he'll be away for several months.
Get here!
Get here fast!
If the world should sink beneath the sea,
reach out your hand and find a friend in need.
Brave the storm with head held
high, stand together side by side.
Just like the mighty mountains
rising high above the fields.
If we all stand together, then there
is nothing that will make us yield.
If the world should sink beneath the sea,
reach out your hand and find a friend in need.
Brave the storm with head held
high, stand together side by side.
Students, while I am very impressed with your dedication,
it doesn't change the fact that a new building is needed.
So, I guess that makes it my job
to find a different place to put it.
Yes!
Thank you!
Thank you, sir!
Hooray!
On to the next experiment.
Yeah!
None of this would have happened without our goddess, Umi.
Mm-hm.
Thanks, but I really didn't do anything.
Oh, come on.
Quit being so modest and say, you're welcome.
You are heaven sent!
Thank you, Umi.
Thank you!
She's our little angel, Umi.
Umi!
Huh?
You have to come.
He's so dreamy.
Perfect couple.
You're so lucky.
Good luck!
Sorry, sir.
I'm certain Umi and Shun wish they could be here to thank
you personally, but urgent matters have taken them away.
Urgent matters, huh?
Ah, to be young.
Hey, Shun!
Gen!
Can you give us a ride?
Umi!
Ah!
Umi, don't you worry, and hang on.
I'll get you there with time to spare.
If we're gonna make it, we'd better run.
OK.
Thanks, Gen.
Sorry I couldn't get you there, Umi!
Shun!
Hurry!
Thanks.
That's my dad's tug.
Come on.
The kids are here to see you, captain.
Push our departure back by fifteen.
Aye.
So then, you're my good friend Tachibana's boy?
Yes, sir.
And you must be Sawamura's daughter.
Pleasure to meet you both.
Your name is Shun, right?
Yes, sir.
Your father was Hiros hi Tachibana, and that's
him sitting in the front row, fourth from the right.
And sitting next to him is Sawamura.
We were just like brothers, the three of us.
Tachibana, you should take the seat of honor.
But why me?
Because you're our fearless leader.
You belong there.
If I'm your leader, we're in trouble.
Don't be the hero and die before me, OK?
Same goes for you.
Gentlemen, hold still.
They were the best friends a man ever had.
I think about them every day.
They were brave and honest, and
I'm honored to have known them.
When I look at you, what I see is
the legacy of those two great men.
And I know they would be very proud.